---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-01-21T17:34:50.410Z'
dateModified: '2016-01-21T17:34:17.989Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-01-21-57138c38-8625-43aa-a5a6-6f0db0b41585.md
published: true
url: 57138c38-8625-43aa-a5a6-6f0db0b41585/index.html
_type: Article

---
This is officially the second website I've launched completely from scratch, and I gotta say:

**this is pretty awesome.**

It's like owning my own patch of land in the internet's infinite digital expanse-- my own private island in an ever-expanding ocean of cat videos, porn, and "Which Game of Thrones House Are You?" Facebook surveys.

Putting my private geek-gasm aside, though, this first post is both a test and a declaration to myself (and to you, my dearest reader) of the purpose of this project. While I've attempted to maintain blogs in the past, I've failed to deliver on the consistency because of a general lack of purpose (as well as a lack of flexibility in terms of design and content control). Since this blog is built from the ground up, I can make it look and behave in any way that I want, which leads me to the first component of this project's purpose: practice web programming.

As I begin to implement new features across this website's timeline of evolution, I'll have to learn to install frameworks, work with databases, and generate interfaces across the entire spectrum of front to back-end blah blah blah... In short, the first reason for this project is.**to learn**

The second reason is a natural extension of the first. Since the website is, in addition to being the

_method_

of my learning, the

_product_

of my efforts, it'll serve quite nicely as a demonstration of my abilities. In other words, the second reason for this project is

**to demo**

.

Last but not least, the main purpose of this site is for me to chronicle both my life endeavors and whatever valuable thoughts arise from them. While I'm aware that I'm not much of a somebody yet, and that whatever I have to say might not be useful or interesting to anyone yet, I can't continue to restrain myself from outputting my thoughts and beliefs for fear that my expressions will be recieved as useless.

In the words of my favorite Terminator, A Schweezy: "Don't be afraid to fail... you can't always win, but don't be afraid of making decisions." While it's not the most profound quote, I find myself very frequently recalling it when I feel like I'm holding myself back from making a mistake, for instance, when I'm afraid to ask a question because I think it's foolish. You really can't learn anything except by making decisions and internalizing the results, and since every sentence I write is a decision, I'll learn from both the responses of my readers and my own feelings upon seeing my thoughts externalized.

What I'm really saying is that I want to take the events from my life, whether they're random phenomena (like when a homeless man wants to borrow your set while you're performing in a subway) or intentional projects (like abstaining from weed for 100 days), and try to extract their most useful follow-up actions or lessons. In short,

**the main purpose of this blog is for me to write succinct personal stories accompanied by actionable advice**

. While this is all technically for myself, I've decided to make this project public in hopes that it'll be useful to literally anyone else.

Here's to 2016, the best year of my life, yet.

Cheers, Internet.

Justin